CS530, Spring 2025, Project #2
You shall develop, test, and deliver a limited two pass assembler for the XE variant of
the SIC/XE family of machines.
LIMITED XE ASSEMBLER REQUIREMENTS:
The Limited XE assembler program shall open SIC (XE only) assembler source files
(such as fig 2.9 and 2.15 in your text) and generate listing files for the XE machine
(such as fig 2.10 and 2.16 in your text). The assembler shall implement all XE features
and assembler directives up to and including section 2.3.4 of the text (does not
implement EQU and ORG)). Does not generate the object code files.
Input - The user will start the program (the program shall be named “lxe”) and will
provide the XE assembler source file(s) names as arguments on the command-line,
each separated by spaces (i.e.):
“[cssc0000@edoras ~a2/lxe io.sic calc.sic main.sic”
Note, if no arguments are provided on the command line, your program shall print a
friendly message stating why you are stopping and then terminate the program.
Your lxe program will open each file, scan the file and processing each assembler
directive and assembling each instruction using the two pass assembler logic discussed
in the text and in class.
The specification for the format of the input file is the XE assembler source file as
specified in the text and in XE Assembler Source in our course on Canvas.
Output – XE Listing file(s) such as those found in figure 2.10 and 2.16 of the text with
the same name as the source file, with “.l” as the filename extension (ex: “io.l calc.l
main.l”). Also, print the SYMTAB you created while assembling the instructions into a
separate file with the same filename, with “.st” as the filename extension (ex: “io.st
calc.st main.st”). The specification for the format of the Listing file is similar to the
Source file but amended as seen in fig 2.10 and 2.16 in your text and can be found in
SIC/XE Assembler Listing in our course on Canvas.
TEAMS: You shall work in teams of two or three people on this project. You may choose
to use pair programming, dividing up the work, or other methods for work completion;
this is up to you. Please note, each person needs to be responsible for all code and
documentation in this project.
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
README file - you shall create a README file; consult the instructions for README
file content as posted on Canvas. Also, your source files SHALL CONTAIN sufficient
comments for making the source easy to read. Points will be taken off for poorly (or non)
commented source or inadequate README file documentation.
Compiler and make (and Makefile) – You shall use C/C++ (gcc/g++) and use make to
compile your program for this assignment; you will need to create a Makefile for your
project. Consult the example Makefile(s) in this course Canvas Resources module.
Name the executable ‘lxe’ .
Test files – You shall prepare and include test files used during the development and
test of your project.
Software Design Document - You are required to perform software design of this
system. Include a Software Design Document (SDD) and turn it in with your project.
Note, you will not be held to formal design specification/formatting or use any of the
formal methods. Turn in a file which contains your software design. You may include a
kanban (and stories), models, drawings, descriptions, diagrams or similar supporting
items to describe your design. You will also include a listing of the tools you used for
your system/software design (IDEs, repositories, compilers, debuggers, etc) along with
any libraries. This is a significant part of your grade and needs to be adequately
captured in your documentation. Include a description of how your team was organized
and how effectively you worked together and areas for improvement. Make sure that all
files (README, source files, header files, Makefile) contains each team member’s
names and RedIDs!
TURNING IN YOUR WORK:
A draft copy of your SDD is due as posted on Canvas. The full, final project is due as
posted on Canvas and in the syllabus
Your project shall include C/C++ source files, an include/header file, a Makefile, and a
README file. ONLY ONE MEMBER OF YOUR TEAM TURNS IN THE PROJECT. To
turn in your project, each team shall select one person, all files shall be in that person’s
class account on edoras in a directory named “a2” (~/a2). Leave any test files in this
directory as well. BE SURE BOTH TEAM MEMBERS NAMES AND CLASS
ACCOUNTS (USERNAMES) are in the README FILE. Finally, the designated person
turns in the project by uploading a tarball/zip-file with all project files to Canvas and
entering any comments in the assignment’s turnin.